The nose pad of a cat is ridged in a pattern that is unique, just like the fingerprint of a human.
A cat's heart beats twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats per minute.
Cats knead with their paws when they're happy.
The domestic cat is the only cat species able to hold its tail vertically while walking.
All wild cats hold their tails horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking. That's to hide their privates.
During her productive life, one female cat could have more than 100 kittens!
Cats have 290 bones in their bodies, and 517 muscles. That's 274 more muscles and bones than a human baby!
The "Cobby" cat body type is a compact body, deep chest, short legs and broad head. The eyes are large and round. 
The "Muscular" cat body type is a sturdy body and round, full-cheeked head. 
The "Foreign" cat body type is a slender body, with long legs and a long tail. The head is wedge-shaped, with tall ears and slanting eyes.
Know how old your cat really is? If your cat is 3, your cat is 21 in human years. If your cat is 8, your cat is 40 in human years.
The average age for an indoor cat is 15 years, while the average age for an outdoor cat is only 3 to 5 years.
A cat's normal body temperature is 101.5 degrees F (38.6 C). This is slightly warmer than a humans.
There are two species of wild cats in African and Europe that still hunt. These two species both resemble the domestic tabbies.
Cats are partially color blind. They have the equivalency of human red/green color blindness.
Cats don't see "detail" very well. To them, their person may appear hazy when standing in front of them.
Cats need 1/6th the amount of light that humans do to see. Their night vision is amazing!
The color of a kitten's eyes will change as it grows older.
At birth, kittens can't see or hear. Cats open their eyes after 5 to 15 days and begin to see and hear at approximately 2 weeks.
Kittens begin dreaming at just over one week old.
A cat's ear pivots 180 degrees. They have 30 muscles in each ear, and use twelve or more muscles to control their ear movement.
Cats are the sleepiest of all mammals. They spend 16 hours of each day sleeping. Like me.
Cats are more active during the evening hours. I have a hard time getting out of bed every day.
An adult cat has 32 teeth.
People aren’t allergic to cat fur. They are allergic to cat dander (shedding skin cells) and saliva.
Raisins, grapes, onions, alcohol, salt, and some chinese teas are toxic to cats. Watch out!
A cat can travel at a top speed of approx. 31 mph (49km) over a short distance!
A cat can see about six times better then a human at night!
A cat can jump up to 7 times its height!
The richest cats in history were a pair of cats who inherited $415,000 in the early ’60s.
The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
A little vegetable oil daily will help to prevent fur-balls and bring a shine to your cat’s coat.
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic feline.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Almost 10% of a cat's bones are in its tail, and the tail is used to maintain balance.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Cats dislike citrus scent.
A cat's tongue has tiny barbs on it.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Domestic cats purr both when inhaling and when exhaling.
Cats walk on their toes.
A domestic cat can sprint at about 31 miles per hour.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
The first breeding pair of Siamese cats arrived in England in 1884.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an "ee" sound.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks - between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.
A cat will spend nearly 30% of her life grooming herself.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
Most cats adore sardines.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
If your cat snores or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
Some notable people who disliked cats: Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
Related page: A Few Famous Cat Lovers
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.